[Music]
Speaking of Dennis Novocaine, Nam.
[Laughter]
I'm so sweet.
Speaking of Dumpster fires.
[Laughter]
Nam 2020.
Have we ever established that we don't actually go to this?
I feel like it's never been clear that we never--
We're there in spirit.
Right, but we're not actually participating.
No.
Which is for the best, because I do kind of feel like I might have a full panic attack.
It's like being in the biggest guitar center ever.
But you're going to get sick there too.
Yeah.
So everyone gets sick.
I think every convention has that problem.
I'd rather spectate--
Yeah.
--germ free through YouTube.
Sonic State was kind of killing it this year.
They interviewed everyone.
Yeah, they did.
They even talked to the MIDI 2.0 guy.
I didn't see that.
Sweet.
[Laughter]
They were talking to dudes who were just doing software stuff.
They really had nothing to say, but they were clearly excited that someone came over to
interview them.
I was like, "Oh, yeah, we got lanes now.
Look, you changed the colors."
Yeah.
It's like the omnisphere people at NobCon.
It's like you can't even remember that they're there because it's like, "Why the fuck are you here?
Nobody wants to check this out at all.
You can download the demo, right?
Like, the fuck you hear?"
But yeah, now.
A bunch of new shit.
Yeah, there is.
And a bunch of old shit that's new again.
Old shit, that's most of it, I swear.
And that's most of what I think I'm interested in.
With a few exceptions, but a lot of new old shit.
MPC1, which like, there's like this wave of me liking it and not liking it.
I think about it.
I'm like, "What the fuck am I going to do with that?"
And the next day I'm like, "Oh, that's fucking great.
That's what I always wanted an MPC to be."
And then it's like, "What the fuck am I going to do with it?"
I don't know.
It looks cool, but it's like so similar to what is it, the live that they have now?
Yeah, I think a ton of them.
But it doesn't have the hard drive.
It's like the same shit in a different configuration.
It doesn't look that much smaller, but it kind of is.
I don't know what looks cool.
It's got less I/O.
And the screen looks nice.
The screen looks nice.
It is literally the exact same screen as the other one.
The force.
Or the live.
Yeah, they even said that it's the same one.
So it's interesting that they made it.
It's definitely cheaper.
About like three or four hundred bucks.
It looks cool.
It's like they kind of went for the Digitact.
Yeah.
I haven't read up on any of them in a few months, but last night, look, they were kind of
unifying the OS across the board.
Did that ever happen?
I think so.
Because you can load those projects.
You can apparently do all the shit just on a PC too.
And you can take those projects and just load them outright onto the computer.
And it'll just play it.
Same effects in VSTs or plugins and shit like that.
So how does that work with the fact that the hardware models are different and have different
features?
Probably processing power.
I know some of them, it's like I/O.
Like the X, the big one has like a shit ton of knobs.
And the live has more outs and ins or something like that.
Okay.
And the one is just like stereo out.
And the one has CV and gate.
Yeah, like fucking eight.
Four pairs of CV gate, which is pretty fucking crazy.
That's a lot of shit.
But I guess like people are learning now, you're going to want to throw some CV gate on there
for people.
It's probably not that expensive to do it like circuit wise, you know?
Yeah.
It's not like a DSP chip or any shit you need.
It's just you just need to fucking DAC to send some voltages out and write to do it in the software.
Now, was it all output or was there any input?
All output.
And you know, unlike the Digitact, it's got like just full effects per channel and shit.
I'm assuming you can just stack as many effects as you have CPU for on each drum or whatever.
So that's cool.
Whereas the Digitact in most of that stuff is like you get an effects send, you know?
That's about it.
No, electron presence.
Speaking of Digitact, it was totally anything mentioned.
I don't think.
Yeah, there were rumors, of course, going up to it, but I didn't see anything materialized there.
So wait, what else did people have?
We're staying on the good.
I was going to say let's start with the good.
I mean, because my next mic opened up with something positive.
We'll continue down that room.
Mine is on.
I don't know if this is going to be controversial or not.
The form S ensemble.
I don't think that's comfortable.
Okay.
Well, next on my list.
Yeah.
Or is the top of my list for good stuff.
This isn't the top of my list, actually.
The, the E-NOSC.
The what?
Yeah.
Ensemble.
Oscillator.
The E-NOSC.
I hate it.
I'm never calling it that way.
You're not going to get a 4MS E-NOSC, Dave?
No, I will be getting a 4MS ensemble oscillator.
Okay.
No, I'm not.
It's not an acronym.
No, it's not an acronym and it's not a abbreviation or an initialization.
Like it has a specific thing where you can't.
It's not a trademark.
It's a Wombow.
It's not a copyright.
It's a Wombow combo.
I'm not a Wombow.
In any case, I'm not fucking calling it that.
Also, like the pleasure you were having in saying it was disgusting.
I saw it written that way like one place and it just, I was like, I have to put that in
my notes, just that is horrible.
I didn't know it would trigger you, but that just makes it even more fun to say no.
It's pretty much always that.
It's going to be the E-NOSC, no.
Yeah.
For sure.
So the E-NOSC, what does it do?
Not both of you.
It's an ensemble oscillator in E-NOSC.
So what is it?
16 different independent oscillators?
But I would wonder if that's like variable.
How does the Odessa compare it?
Because that does like, is the Odessa just stack partials or is it like copies from an
oscillator?
It's partials.
Okay.
I'll jump in streams there, but I think of those two kind of things.
And you can stack voices on the Odessa.
It goes, I think, one, three, five.
Okay.
Different voices.
Like super soft kind of.
Okay.
Gotcha.
So yeah, you can stack the voices on Odessa.
I've only owned the Odessa for a little while.
And like on paper, I was trying to compare it to the ensemble oscillator.
There seems to be some crossover there, but they also both seem to be really different.
You know what I mean?
This kind of focuses on the whole super amount of partials you can bring into it and all
that jazz, whereas the ensemble seems to be more like focused on the chord aspect.
Yeah.
And it seems like you can get a little more nasty with the 4MS one.
It's got like the built in, you know, different distortion modes and all that jazz.
And the FM shit.
That was like the real clincher when I saw that at the end and heard some of those sounds.
Like fuck, because when he's like, yeah, and it'll keep the ratio from the chord structure
of the oscillators.
And I was like, oh fuck, that's interesting.
And even the way that you present the chords was an interesting thing because that's a
separate input.
Oh yeah, where you can like program it.
Yeah.
So and like there was a, I think there was even like a learn button.
There's a learn button and you can activate it with a gate.
Oh really?
Oh shit.
Nice.
Yeah.
I love how when they do an idea that's kind of weird, like that they go all the way with
it and make it something kind of totally alien and they fully think it through.
Yeah.
That's the thing to grab me the most is it seemed really well thought out.
You know what I mean?
And Dan, the 4MS seemed really excited to talk about it and it kind of like came through,
you know, in every interview that he did.
Yeah.
And even like the like the YouTube sound demos sounded fucking great for it.
It sounded like a, it seemed like a lot of variety.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I would have liked to hear more of the distortion features and the FM stuff.
That all seemed like, you know, an afterthought during some of the interviews and I was like,
show me more of that please.
You know what I mean?
Like it definitely seems like there's a distinct character to this, you know, voice,
but I wanted to make sure it's not like a one trick pony.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
That's fair.
It doesn't seem like it is.
It just seems like they didn't really tap into all the other features aside from like,
you know, the high end Steppy stuff.
I was like, okay.
What I didn't notice is like, how do you pick like waveforms on it or what does it have
available?
Is it all like?
I thought it was all signed, but that could be wrong.
Uh, yeah.
No, it is 16 sign based oscillators.
The detune knob really impressed me.
It's doing way.
It's not going to sound like shit, you know.
I guess my main concern is I didn't want to make sure it just didn't sound pretty all
the time.
You know what I mean?
I didn't want to make sure it was like, I'm not going to make sure it was going to be
a one trick pony.
I'm not going to make sure it was going to be a one trick pony.
I don't know, this design isn't as exotic as that one, even the look of it.
Whereas that one was pretty over the top light show.
I wonder if they wanted to make something that wasn't quite a $600.
I don't know how much it is, but like six oscillator thing.
300 I think.
Yeah, that one's the new one's like 300.
They even said they wanted to price it so that everyone could have it, which was fucking cool.
Yeah, $2.99.
That's insane for an oscillator that complicated, in my opinion.
Whereas their last two were almost twice that, but they were also way more.
The Odessa's twice that.
Oh, yeah.
It's kind of a bummer.
Yeah, that's the same due to me the topographic.
If there's one thing about the topographic, because it was really straightforward, you could get up and running in a couple minutes with that thing.
That was it.
It was nice snowmen use.
Fish straightforward.
Yeah, I feel like as far as modules go, that thing kind of stole the show.
I've got a different one.
My top one.
Yeah.
Which one?
The noise engineering does MODIS Versio, their stereo DSP platform.
That's your number one?
That's my number one.
Because that's at my bottom.
Do we have to fight?
Is this how does this work?
No, no, go ahead.
I wanted it to be at my top.
When I saw that it was announced, I was very excited.
I was like, noise engineering finally getting into the effects world, and wanting that for a while.
Well, I would do it.
Something I can run my BIA through.
It has a cohesive sound.
But those demos were fucking horrible.
Really?
I could not stand those demos, especially the first one.
Dude was just literally running static through a reverb.
Yeah, that was so bad.
No, there's...
And I don't remember which video it was.
There was one or two of them.
I'm like, fuck, this sounds great.
And also the idea of a platform and adding new algorithms to it and it being this sort of
evolving ecosystem of different effects was very appealing.
I split my stuff up between good, bad, ugly.
And I put that one under ugly.
Not because I feel like the module is going to be bad.
I just felt like the presentation was so bad that it kind of did not make me want to buy it.
I'm still going to hold out hope that it sounds better than those demos.
Whoever that guy was presenting it didn't do a good job of talking about all that it's
capable of or doing a decent sound demo.
This fucking nail polish, dude.
So chipped.
It was horrible.
I was like, you know you're going to be doing demos of a module.
The whole world is going to be staring at your hands and you can't even put on a fresh
coat.
You know what?
I take it back now because I didn't know that.
Right.
Exactly.
That's bullshit.
You see what I'm saying, dude?
No, no, I'd--
File under ugly.
Sorry.
Seriously, I can't believe I missed that.
Invalid module.
Validates.
Anything positive about the module when you're looking at someone's chipped, cracked fingernail
polish, Dave.
But in any case, I have high hopes for this.
What's their main, like-- so I didn't see this from when they were selling it.
So it's like a platform.
What does it come with though?
That's like different.
Because they usually have an angle and that's almost like a little bland for them.
Is it like spin DSP or whatever the FV--
It comes with three algorithms that you can bounce between.
Okay.
It was reverb delay in comb.
Comb is the other one.
Yeah.
Which I like my comb field, especially after the bionic lister, it was like open new doors
for me in that regard, you know.
Come to the land of comb filters.
Yeah.
Before, I was always like, you know, so-so about them, but now I'm kind of using them more.
And it would be fun to be able to bounce between like reverb delay comb, you know, using CV.
Oh, like BIA mode switching kind of thing.
Yeah, it can-- yeah, exactly.
You can do that, which had me interested.
And I guess you could probably program any three effects to do that with bounce through
23 different streams.
Yeah.
The other ones that they had were less exciting to me.
And it was-- it seemed like there was a similar idea.
And it's the vert deter, which is going to be a similar sort of like oscillator platform,
which I don't know.
It seemed like a cool idea, but- Oh, other modules.
I think about other modes.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no platform.
I got you.
Yeah, they released an Esterio oscillator, which didn't seem to have too many bells or
whistles, aside from the fact that it's stereo on that you could reprogram it essentially.
Yeah.
And then the other one was that MIDI converter, which was, I don't understand why they made
that.
I mean, are they maybe going towards a full system someday?
Yeah, that's the only thing that- Why you would add to that already?
Very crowded.
Okay.
I guess there are two camps of people, and I know which one we fall in, but there are
some people that do want, like, "I want a full system by one manufacturer," which when
I think about it, it's like, "Oh, that's like the antithesis of why."
Okay.
That kind of defeats the purpose of going modular in my place.
It is funny, though, because like, when a played shows where people come up afterwards
and asked me, "Oh, is this a make noise system?"
Right.
I'm like, "No, no, no."
Just say yes.
Yeah.
And I've said, "No."
I've got like, "Oh, make noise model," and the second I said, "No."
They just walked away.
That was just their awkward way of asking if you were at Alessandro Cortini.
They're like, "Oh shit, is that him?
Go up and see if he has a make noise system."
Oh my God.
He's so much fatter than I thought he would be.
So just jumping off that for some off topic shit.
Cortini apparently showed off the OverStayer modular channel in a video two weeks ago.
Who watched it?
I forgot to tell you about it.
It's in the video for all of five seconds.
Some multiple people commenting on the OverStayer thread about how they're going to buy one
now.
What?
From that?
Do you just do nothing with it?
Yeah.
No, I don't get it, dude.
Anything that that dude touches people will buy because he said it was cool.
I'm like, "That is what sold you."
That five second clip in that video where he's running a fucking 808 through it.
But yeah, I don't know.
Just not the Virof topic of NAM, but that just blew my mind.
Back on track.
Oh yeah, I was going to say the reverb of that, the noise engineering one.
I don't know how I felt about the sound of it.
You know what I mean?
Aside from the crappy static demo that he gave, I was trying to get a feel for the character
of the reverb.
I don't think they showed off the delay or the comb.
So the one demo I saw, I think they did go over the comb.
I don't remember which one it was.
I'll have to check out a few more then.
I just saw that very first demo.
It was the first one they did.
It was just static.
But it seemed like the reverb had a very shimmer quality to it.
They say that there is a...
That's kind of what one of the things they were going for was shimmer.
Like if you go out there and like their text blur for it actually includes shimmer as well
in the words.
I didn't hate it though.
Personally, I'm not too into shimmer.
Yeah.
I was kind of hoping they would go for like a dirtier like 80s like...
I feel like I got that base cover though.
Yeah.
That's why I don't need another one of those.
And I like the idea of having like their take on shimmer is appealing to me.
Sure.
I can see that.
I like shimmer but I have like one thing that does it and that's all I ever need it for.
You know I don't use it all the time because it's so particular that sound.
And I was real disappointed with the Sean Costello shimmer card for ZDSP.
Oh yeah?
Yeah.
Like I basically never end up using it.
And I was really looking forward to it.
See you.
And I just...
It didn't click with me.
I thought the card was good but it just made me realize that I don't like shimmer.
Right.
You know what I mean?
I was like...
I hear other people use it and I'm like yeah well that's shimmer but it's never something
that I'm like yeah I need that in my sound.
I don't understand the use for it.
You know what I mean?
It's such a particular like distinct thing that it's not that versatile.
You know?
Like I wouldn't use that on drums.
I wouldn't want it on my drones.
Like drones I usually go for I don't know more of a slow chorus like dark tone.
You know what I mean?
Something that's all shimmery and like pitch shifting.
It sounds neat but it's just I don't know what the fuck I would use it for.
Maybe you have like a mother 32 and rings and braids and cactus.
You better get some goddamn shimmer.
I have that shimmery...
How much are you like a video?
No one's watching that shit.
Fluctuations.
Yeah.
It's gonna be like a cloudy day.
Yeah but maybe some rain.
Yeah.
Like a little just a little bit.
Well I will get this and then we can tear it apart later.
You can see the early adaptor.
And you can be like you were right all along.
Okay.
Stereo in, stereo out.
I don't know I still have I still hope.
Stereo in is a nice touch.
Considering all the new tip top ones are not for whatever fucking reason.
Yeah.
The Z5000 and all that stuff echoes.
It's all mono in.
Like why?
Yeah dark matter is also mono in.
It's just surprising.
Like why would you not have?
Surprised by that?
Well the dark matter not as much but any other effects process of the earth's modern
anymore it's not the fuck.
Yeah.
Anything in the last year I feel like because there was like the idea that your Iraq and
the system was mono was persisted for a pretty long time.
Times have changed though.
Yeah.
Especially for like time based effects you know.
If it's a distortion of course it's probably going to be mono maybe.
But you know that being said stereo is pretty awesome too.
And you're not necessarily going to be coming from a mono oscillator anymore.
That's changed.
Yeah that's also true.
So I think like everyone should just get on fucking board.
Tip top's being stubborn.
If you want that stereo you got to get that ZDSP.
I think the happy nerding effects aid is going to do circles around all those new tip tops
personally.
Did you have that?
It's still not available in the States dude.
Like I've been waiting for months.
Analung Haven got in like a dozen of them last week and they sold out like in an hour.
And they said there's going to be another batch but he's the sole reseller for stateside.
You know who didn't fuck up like that?
Paul.
No no he did not.
He wasn't that name was he?
I didn't see any video so I'm saying that.
Yeah he usually calls it NAMTHRACS.
He gets NAMTHRACS that so I bet he would avoid it.
That's a smart choice.
I assume he's very busy now.
Yeah he's cracking away at me.
Making them hyperiones.
Next on my tier of mildly interesting things.
I'm only mildly interested in this.
Banger 100M.
It's their 100 well whatever they're calling their rolling 100M clone ripoffs but they
have the voice module that's like VCO, VCF and VCA.
You know they said they're going to be 50 or 100 bucks and I'm like I'll try that one.
I'm still like so bittered like I can't get fired up about their shit but I'll try that
one.
A one system 100M shit but I'm definitely not going to pay for the real thing.
Right.
I mean the system 100 has always been appealing.
It's like a giant blown out 101.
Back in the day before I started my modulus what I contemplated buying.
Someone was selling one for like it wasn't all of it obviously but it was like a chunk
of it and I was like yeah.
It's got the juice in my opinion.
Everything I've heard it's like that fucking sounds good.
I like the interface of it you know classic rolling.
The sound was always good but I'm still worried about it's a $50 oscillator.
Yeah.
This thing I don't have a lot of faith that bearing was recreating the you know system
100's sound.
I mean it definitely looks like some of them but I need to hear more demos.
But I never got like super fired up about the molecular clones when I heard them.
Like it sounded like kind of there and I think I played with it at novcon once but
I never like and they were like kind of pricey too.
So it was like yeah.
They were kind of expensive.
Yeah.
It was meant to be more like a boutique type thing instead of like a cheap recreation which
I guess I understand.
If I remember you'd have to spend like 900 bucks to put a voice together and shit and
that was just like.
That's one reason why I've always enjoyed a lot of the intelligel stuff is that it's
a lot of it is modeled not sound wise but function wise like after the classic rolling
stuff like their dual envelope generators and the metropolis and the lances and all
that shit.
This is true.
Just didn't have that sound though unfortunately.
You know what I still kind of miss sometimes that and very gate eat every so often I just
wanted in there for a patch and then I know I wouldn't use it every day but it had it.
That was the cool one.
It was literally just thinking that yesterday.
Yeah.
I was kind of missing.
I just threw my old pictures of my imgar site where I host all the stuff that I put for
sale.
I put them in the muff threads or whatever and I saw that and I was like I kind of missed
that thing now.
I couldn't remember why I sold it.
Then I remember I sold them when I got the vector I guess.
I was like okay this is doing all the sequencing I need but yeah I don't know.
Sometimes it would be nice to just punch something in on the.
But you know what I got?
It said a hydrogen.
Hell yeah.
Yes.
Wait do you want to talk about the hydrogen?
I do.
Because that's not really NAM specific.
Yeah before we dive into the hardware of Hidersense I just want to say that the interviews that
those guys did at NAM were fucking fantastic.
Yeah they were.
Every fucking interview.
I was like if I didn't already own this thing I would be buying it because you're selling
me on it like all over again with like every interview.
They just all seem so fucking genuine about their product and like just always had a lot
of interesting things to say about it.
Yeah I like the designer dude seems cool and the two engineers were obviously like super
knowledgeable on just how open they were to like oh yeah we're going to clone some filters
and then dude was like I'm just going to make a machine learning model of all these different
types of cool filters.
It's like what the fuck?
It's a good idea.
It does it sounds really fucking good.
Yeah.
Hidersense you had the keyboard.
Had it.
You swapped for the desktop.
Had it for 24 hours yeah.
We were both on that shit pretty quickly.
The keyboard was just too damn big.
Like within a day I found myself really enjoying like the ribbon controller and stuff and the
extra knobs but then I was like the more I learned it over the course of like the short
24 hours that I had it I was like I don't need these extra knobs actually.
I'd rather have the more desk space available so.
What did the extra knobs give you?
Literally just more knobs.
Yeah like okay.
But you already have eight to begin with with the desk.
More it's eleven.
I thought it was eight that were context sensitive.
Oh yeah yeah you get the eight soft knobs and the other ones are armp and then filter.
Gotcha gotcha.
So you get like more armp knobs on the keyboard.
You get the ratcheting features are brought up to knobs.
But I found that I was just using the soft knobs anyways for like as soon as you touch
anything that has to do with like the armp engine those are right there on the menu anyways.
So yeah I was like yeah I'll get the desktop instead.
So hit up my sweet water sales rep said hey buddy send in this back your way.
I think I'm just fucking heavy as fuck because the desktop version is the heaviest desktop
so I could barely bring it into the FedEx to show.
Like I was sick and it was freezing cold I had gloves on this thing was like slipping
out of my hands I was like please don't break this thing.
The guys just standing around the counter washing me trying to like open the door with
my foot as I'm like trying to drag this big ass synth in there but yeah sent that thing
on back.
Hundred pound beast it's burly it's definitely over engineered it feels sturdy shit nothing
about it feels cheap.
Pretty impressed yeah with build quality obviously sound but like the editing of it so fucking
awesome.
Obviously the mod matrix so they were super inspired by the overhimer spander and I guess
most of them had one at one point it has like kind of the same editing and soft knob
shit which I didn't I never had an expander.
I remember Rudman had one forever I never really paid with it.
But you can do cool shit like if you're at the modulators on the little selector thing
you can just hold an LFO and then hit oscillator it takes you right to the mod matrix.
That kind of shit is cool.
Remember I was showing it to you the other day Dave and I was like oh it's weird to like
so it's got these two oscillator modes there's like just oscillator with wave table shit
and then there's wave scan where you can make like your own more between waves and
I was telling you like oh you got to like edit all eight of them and you got to fill
them all out or like if you only put two right next to each other one and two it only gives
you like a little bit of a knob turn to like scan through it but if you hold shift I found
out and then hit the wave table it'll start to line all the different wave tables up
in order.
So if there's like horizon one through eight and the way they break it up on there if you
just hold that shift button and move it over then it starts to pull everything like through
that array so it automatically lines up all the things that are late to each other on
the knobs and you can just sweep through that shit and I saw that and I was like that's
fucking smart.
There's a way to make a random array too if you want.
Oh really?
I forget how to do it off time I have it yeah you can make like your own random array that
you can morph through now.
Nice.
Yeah and there's there's oscillators and then you have these two mutant modes on the first
two two or three and that lets you do stuff like linear FM.
So it's almost like almost a function of the oscillator not the oscillator itself so you're
like applying oscillator sync to this oscillator it doesn't care what type it is you're applying
like linear FM to an oscillator that could be a wave table or square or whatever.
The pulse width though it's the same as like the waves can where you can have like you can
design how it pulse widths it and so you get like you go to this edit menu you get the
eight soft knobs for the different pulse width values and then you can modulate each one
of those knobs.
So you can modulate in real time a pulse width that has eight different points on the wave
form and you can modulate all those individually.
So they went deep on the sound engine.
Yeah you can do some serious sound design on this thing.
Yeah more so than anticipated.
Same you know.
It seems like you can always kind of push it into a different little territory because
at first when you look at the oscillator you're like oh that's less parameters than
like a complex euro oscillator.
It's really like the way those mutant things work and then all the modulation and the
fact that it sounds like really good when you modulate that shit like it's really like
it all works together very well.
It should but you know it's like feels very cohesive the way the stuff interacts and it
feels like you can keep pushing it in different territories.
It's pretty cool.
And everything unless you're demonstrating to me see musical.
Is everything geared towards being musical or can you make things that are just chaos.
You can fuck it up.
You can definitely push it.
Because we were it's got effects and we were talking well at least I was I was like that
doesn't have distortion and Greg's like I don't need that anyway.
Which I was like yeah that makes sense after the fact.
But the filter distortion is really cool and that lets you kind of open up like a lot
of different colors.
So that kind of satisfied me.
I'm like oh I can overdrive this and you've got the tons of different filter types so
that gives you like a lot of room and you get two filters and you can change the routing.
And I think we were all fooled by the fact that and maybe that was even on a podcast
but I thought it was like multi-temporal.
I thought you got like eight layers of voices if you wanted but it's really just one voice
up to eight note poly.
Right.
I think we said on the previous episode that it was multi-voice but it turns out it's not.
Which I'm not sure why we all thought that.
Yes.
Swerves said that somewhere.
Maybe I just misunderstood the write up or maybe that has changed since it's gone into
production but maybe that's something they'll add later.
Yeah maybe because I remember I got it and hit the voice button in the upper right and
I was like oh that's going to let me.
It's like no it doesn't do anything at all like that.
It lets you tune the voice basically.
So that being said I still fucking super dig it.
Yeah.
I saw somebody did a pretty good comparison of that in the Chira from Waldorf.
They were like oh I had both for a period of time and they kept talking about how editing
the Chira was kind of a fucking nightmare.
Like we were talking about.
They were like yeah you just never it seems like totally awkward the way you've got to
edit this thing and it's like everything's kind of disconnected and all these like different
menus and I was like cool.
I don't fucking want that at all.
I really just want a blow felt with multi-mode where it has discrete effects on each channel.
If they could have made that that would be no brainer.
But yeah I would say I'm compared to sold my mini log XD to help fund the Hydrosynth
and they're like pretty close to like $150 difference and I think the Hydrosynth just
fucking blows it out of the water.
I kind of hated the mini log XD.
Just the way it sounded.
No low end either.
So you were fired up when we did the podcast review of it though.
I'm always fired up initially.
Yeah but yeah it's true.
But I realized with that thing is like when I tried to I would play it by itself and be
like oh that's kind of cool that's kind of cool and then want to try to make music with
it.
I was like I can't get to where I want to go and I would even I took the blow felt out
and swapped it out and like that was like oh shit I'm getting everything I need and that's
when I put the mini log in the box.
I figured this out and then when I wanted the Hydrosynth was when I was like I'm going
to fucking sell it.
All the demos were pretty good.
Not just the interviews but the demos that they have to.
Mylar melodies did one and one of his friends did another one.
It was like Mylar was kind of jamming out doing like you know wave table techno jams
with it on the desktop and then there was another video of his friend next to him who
was doing more like key stuff on the keyboard version like pads and drones and stuff.
It was like cool to see both you know territories being explored totally and they were just
doing stuff on the fly and they were both come up with like interesting results so it's
like that's pretty cool.
Yeah on the desktop version they did get the pads really right like that after touch works
well on the velocities.
Awesome I've been using that to program the mini box and it's fucking great.
It works perfect.
I haven't been touching them too much.
I've been sequencing it with the modular.
Oh yeah yeah.
I haven't like tried to play it or really mess with the pads too much.
I've been sending it sequences.
I was actually wanting to score a pyramid again just for the pads and the hydro synth
like I don't want anymore now because that has the pads that are even better than the
pyramid and I can just point those to the MIDI box and that's what I wanted anyway.
So how about that 2600?
And no I'm not talking about the Atari game console.
Or the hacker quarterly magazine.
Yeah damn it Dave here one step ahead of my joke.
Which 2600 are you talking about because I hear there too?
I'm talking about both.
Oh shit.
Let's talk about the official one first.
The cork one?
Yeah.
The carp.
26.
I like my carp Odyssey.
That's one that I kind of was into but maybe wasn't for me but it was a solid it fucking
sounded good.
So do you want to get a carp 2600?
Yeah.
Good good.
Apparently they're only making like a hundred of them.
Yeah.
And like people are getting refunded already and like people that told they made the list
or not being refunded and being too bad you know.
That's wack.
Yeah.
So super limited.
No idea why.
And because I mean clearly the demand is there.
Yeah.
Like people got pretty excited about this.
But yeah super limited $4,000 price tag.
Which I think is right on par with like the TTSH.
Yeah.
Really makes.
I mean those weren't full size but they were pretty good in my opinion.
Yeah.
Maybe might even prefer that something a little right.
A little more compact right.
I was thinking the same thing.
But yeah after seeing like how much of a pain you ask is going to be to get one and
the price tag and all that I've rolled that out completely.
But looks awesome.
I can't believe someone's finally doing like a full size accurate remake of it.
So obviously Beringer is going to be there to swoop in on the all the broken hearted.
Rejected people weren't getting one of the real deals.
They still haven't announced a price for the Beringer version or like an ETA.
All they did was release a couple of those videos during name with the what's his name.
Rob Kebel, the guy from AMS.
Right right right.
Her name sense rather.
Yeah.
They did like two video interviews with him talking about it and showing it off a little
bit.
The thing about price or one it's expected to come out.
He didn't really hint at anything like that.
He just said like he came into the process halfway through when like the prototype was
in really rough form.
They brought him in to like whip it into shape and make it sound good.
And I didn't have any faith in it until I saw it was him.
You know what I mean?
I'm like okay.
I was like maybe this would actually sound good.
It's compact.
It's rack mountable.
You can throw it in like a 19 inch mixer rack.
You could like put it under the table if you wanted.
You know anywhere where it fit.
It doesn't seem to come with a keyboard or speakers which I'm totally fine with.
But yeah it looked alright.
Looked like a rave machine with all the crazy LEDs but he showed that like you can dim those
to the point where you can actually turn them completely off if you want.
Oh cool.
So it's good to hear.
Yeah.
So it can just be completely dark just all sliders.
I'm a little interested in it.
You know what I mean?
If he was involved like we were saying that that bodes a while he's been cloning that
shit forever.
And a lot of vintage filters and all that doing an accurate job with it.
And the cork is just not going to be obtainable.
So it'll be obtainable but for like four times the fucking price on reverb I'm sure.
So that's 20 grand.
Yeah.
That's the question now is what's your guess.
I've got my guess.
We can make a prediction right now.
I'm going to go for it.
One year $1,000.
It'll take them a full year to do it and it'll cost a grand.
I don't think they can do it for a grand.
I think it's going to be $1,500.
That's my guess is $1,500.
Just there's too much going on.
I can see that.
Yeah.
No.
Yeah I think you're most of I would agree with that somewhere between one to 15.
Yeah.
You got to say a fucking number.
Put your fucking money down.
$12.99.
That's my final bid there.
Right.
So we edged you up in true prices right now.
So your window's short.
$1.99.
Ah.
Yeah.
I think $12.99.
I don't know what anybody wins but probably not one of those.
But even $12.99 would actually, I think that would be fair if it sounded good.
What's there?
What are those deep mind shits cost?
They're like 400 bucks.
Oh, we finished.
Yeah.
They're cheap dude.
They're like $3.99 or something like that.
I forgot to mention the Barringer version comes with extra shit.
Oh.
It's not like a true one to one remake.
It has two different selectable filter modes.
Oh, that is cool.
It has a sync to ask two and three.
And there's pulse with modulation.
And it's doo-fonic.
That's some of the stuff that Rob has added.
Yeah, it's got the two of this version.
Pre and post lawsuit filters.
Mm-hmm.
I thought that was a nice touch.
All right, so I've got some less than flattering things.
We want to move to the less than flattering things.
I was going to bring up two more things that I thought was good.
All right.
What would you call it?
There aren't even that many things in the world that are good.
Yeah, seriously.
These are towards the bottom of the list now but still decent.
While we're on the subject of overly priced old new shit, the Corrigan has 20 remakes.
Oh, how much are there?
1,400, which is about twice as much as I'd be willing to spend on a basic mono.
I mean, I love the MS-20.
And I was excited to see it.
But that price was just like, fuck.
I could just get a baron drawer at this point.
Why can't we just make it available?
And that's the thing too.
It's that expensive and it's limited.
It's a limited run.
You have to--
What's with these limited runs?
No idea.
I mean, they're acting like there's no fucking demand for this.
People haven't been demanding this for 40 fucking years now.
Like, I don't know.
Is it to generate buzz and create this artificial scarcity?
Is it basically just building a mystique?
Maybe?
This is the third re-release they've done of this synth.
There was the mini.
Then there was the M desktop kit.
Now there's these.
And clearly there's demand there.
I just fucking released them, do a big old production run of them.
At this point, you could just always have them in production.
I mean, it's something that you could just be making for a while.
Just flood the market with the desktop on with the mods.
Yeah.
It's like, that seems like that would cover it all.
This newest version doesn't even have the mods that the desktop does.
Like, it lacks some of the stuff that the M has.
Don't know why.
I got excited and I figured it'd be like all on there.
Nope.
But it comes in four optional colors.
I did see that.
Blue.
One of the colors.
Blue, green, black, and white.
And the white does look dope.
I can't deny it.
Yeah.
It does look like a stormtrooper.
It does.
Yeah.
It's a beautiful little box.
I was like, man, that's like my dream, you know, MS-20 right there.
Looking all shiny and white.
Like, I don't know what it is about synths in white, dude, but it just like, it always
grabs me.
Yeah.
Even my patch cables, Dave.
Like, I'm white.
I'm looking at the...
I'm literally looking at them right now.
You've got to look like it's from a...
Space.
You know what though?
Like, you know, whenever you perform, you know they're not white because the lights
and shit on the modular are changing them.
They're not white when you're performing.
Oh, I know that, Dave.
I just want to make sure you know that that's how color works.
Okay.
Light and color.
They reflect.
They do.
Yeah.
That's one reason why I've always liked white gear live because it helps pick up all the colors
and projections that are going on.
Where is that blue MS20 looks like?
Shit.
It kind of does.
Yeah.
It looked like a fucking toy.
I saw that and I was like, what the fuck?
It's all the other ones.
It's a really weird color.
Green one.
Okay.
It's not like...
I don't know.
It's not like an MS...
I mean, a SH01 Blues.
Yeah.
It's kind of like...
It's like a royal...
It's like...
It doesn't...
It's a blue synthesizer should not be.
Like, an icing on a cake type of blue.
I don't know.
It was, yeah, it was strange.
I was excited and then I wasn't.
Once I saw it lacked some of the mods and the price tag was a little steep.
So we were right.
This didn't belong on the good list.
I mean, it's good but it's...
The fuck are you telling?
It's not something I'm going to be getting probably.
You know what I mean?
Frustrating T's good.
Yeah.
Like, oh, this is good but it's actually bad.
It's good because the synths coming back out again.
It's the type of synth that is like, I think, the perfect synthesis learning tool.
Like, I would love to see an MS-20 in like every fucking kids music classroom or library.
You know what I mean?
I thought they made the big one.
Yeah.
They had that big one.
Exactly.
So it's like kind of cool that it's coming out.
People will be able to get these again, you know, things like that.
But yeah, I'm not going to shell out 1400 to own one but I'm kind of glad that it exists.
Maybe it'll knock a few desktop mod ones loose because somebody always wanted a full size.
A couple already popped up on the market because I was paying attention.
Yeah.
But the fact that they're popping up is cool.
And even if it's at an inflated price.
And I've tried to pay attention to the prices of those for a while.
They seem to fluctuate widely.
Like, I guess it depends on what people think, you know, they're worth.
Yeah, like that core wave state seems like it tanked the prices of that mini log XD
because I was trying to sell that and like, I dropped like the overall reverb price by
a certain amount just because I went under this one dude and then everybody else like
right on the bottom and then I was like, oh, finally got it out there though.
But yeah, this thing, I don't really get it.
Well, the wave statement, it's a new wave station, right?
Exactly.
I'm not like, I used to use the VST a bit.
I would still use it if I had to, but I did it for like two sounds and I'm not going to
like program that thing.
I did like the little onboard sequencer functions that it had and look kind of cool.
Yeah, the way you can do some like polyrhythmic stuff with it and things like that.
I thought that was a nice touch.
There's probably people out there that are really fired up for it.
Yeah, there are.
For me, like I saw it and I couldn't eat it was like hard to read the details.
I was so bored by it.
It just kind of got to be chill.
And it felt bad.
I was like, oh, you should like this.
But it's like, I don't even want to fucking look at it.
Yeah.
That reminds me of the other thing that was on my list.
This is also good or like your version of good that's not really good.
Well, I mean, I didn't want to file that under ugly or bad.
Well, this one I think is definitely good.
Twisted Electron's Mega FM.
Oh, the Sega FM chip one.
Oh, yes.
That was that YM something chip.
Yeah.
I think I dropped down the chip.
I can never remember the number either.
That was awesome.
The YM 2612 FM chip.
Yeah, the Genesis chip.
You see this found in the Mega Drive and the Genesis.
Mm-hmm.
Well, they both used that chip.
I didn't realize that.
You're talking about the original Mega Drive or--
Because what was the--
You got the Master System.
Master's US version.
Yeah.
OK, so there was the Master System and then the Mega Drive, the Genesis.
What was the Japanese version of the Genesis?
Oh.
Was there one?
I think it had a different name.
Was that the Mega Drive?
Yes.
That's when we're getting confused.
The Master System.
Master System was the US 8-bit Nintendo competitor.
Right.
Yeah.
Which like nobody had.
No, it didn't do well.
Yeah.
Was the Genesis.
Really?
Yes.
It's the same thing.
I'm looking at the Sega Genesis Wikipedia page.
That's why-- sorry, I didn't not need to be a pedant about this.
No, dude.
But--
You're the expert.
Put me in my place.
I have to confess.
I was an Atari/Nintendo fanboy.
I never owned a Sega system until Saturn.
Oh, you picked a good place to pick it up.
I love my Saturn.
I love my Saturn, my dreamcast.
Saturn was nice.
But it short lived.
I faced it out quickly for a PlayStation 1.
That was probably one of the best.
My favorite game on Saturn was the Alien Trilogy game.
It's fucking amazing, dude.
That was one of the best console FPS that I ever played.
Like, Gold and I came out later and kind of stole the show.
But I feel like the Alien Trilogy game was way underrated ahead of its time.
Face huggers and shit.
Yeah, it was good.
But anyways--
Yes.
--the Mega FM.
Very nice little box.
Kind of offers everything that I feel like the Digitone didn't offer me.
And that's mainly hands-on control.
It's got 32 sliders, 14 knobs, 15 buttons, 6 voices, 4 operators per voice, 8 algorithms.
7 mode arpeggiator engine, preset randomizer.
Very nice.
3 LFOs.
Which is a little lacking.
Oh, I said that.
I don't know that.
I mean, with all the shit they got on there already, it's a nice touch, I think.
Yeah.
A lot going on there on a little box.
And it's estimated to cost 525 USD.
That's a good price.
The Korg OP6 looked kind of cool, but it's so prototyped at this point.
Yeah.
There aren't many details.
Missed that completely.
It looks like a DX7 kind of clone from Korg.
But it's like FM, but it's got a bunch of sliders on it too.
Oh, yeah.
I remember looking at it for like a split second.
Yeah, because then I saw the Mega FM and I was like--
Hello.
Yeah.
But I've always wanted a nobier DX7 and he hasn't, like, something that's a little more fun to
program than one slider and a bunch of buttons.
But we'll see.
The DX200 have a lot of awesome stuff and a lot of improvements over it, but still also
has a lot of faults.
Yeah, they could remake that.
I don't get like--
Like, there's got to be something between the Volca FM and like a big-ass keyboard that's
like fucking huge.
Yeah, because they tried it with the re-face.
There was a DX7 re-face that they did.
Yeah.
But you tried.
It's on Obcon.
Yeah, and you--
You've walked away shaking your head.
I was like, no, no.
And the thing was I wasn't being like an asshole, but I was like, I want to like this.
I want to walk away with one.
I was like, no, I could not fucking get into it.
I thought it was a terrible-- like, they just did everything fucking wrong with it.
So yeah, they just were like, OK, DX200 fixed a couple of things that were wrong with
it.
And then just the last bit that they didn't surface and just sell that, I think it would
be huge.
Many people got to export.
Yeah.
With some interface that wasn't some fucking things you have to push with your thumb, it's
like, am I masturbating the synth right now?
That's touching its prostate.
You've got to make it come.
We were just describing the mega FM.
It's going to make you come.
Holy shit.
Hopefully that's what ends up on the box.
So wait, do you have any more good ink will, Tarkrag?
Like something really good.
Like actually good.
That was it.
The only thing I could even talk about is the dark matter.
And I've only put like an hour into it right now or two, which I fucking like it a lot.
That would say mayor.
Yeah.
Okay, that was something I wanted to say recently got a dark matter and you got a dark matter
as well.
Yeah.
And I love it.
It's more than just a feedback machine, which we talked about like, and you've talked about
this in the past.
A little bit.
It's the idea of you can create feedback without special modules.
I wouldn't need it.
If that's all it was doing, this model would be you wouldn't need it.
But all of the relationship between like the EQ and the feedback, like the amount that
they're giving it, being able to send the feedback out to get processed and come back
in and you know, CV over, even just the dry and like the feedback amount.
Yeah, that's huge.
It's fucking amazing.
So my question is Greg, I know you had a dark matter for a while.
Yes.
What were you not stoked on?
Yeah, it's been burning me too.
I'm like, what the fuck did he not like?
It wasn't a matter of not liking it.
It just felt redundant.
It was when I was trying to downsize everything.
Yeah.
Pretty much just using it for feedback routing, which I can already do with some of the mixers
that I got.
And the distortion was cool and the EQ functions, but I also had that already too at the time.
Like I was using, I had multiple playeresses that I was routing feedback through, bandpass
filters to control like the frequencies of it.
I also had the surge resonant EQ, which I was using a lot for feedback processing.
So I just felt like I had too much going on to do that.
And it wasn't like the cheapest module and it was reselling for pretty much what it
cost new.
So I figured I should just flip it and not look back.
But now that I'm going for like an even more compact setup and hearing you guys talk about
it again, I'm kind of eyeballing it again instead of using all of my filters and mixers
to process the feedback would be nice to have all in one solution.
And then there was just the, I just kind of felt like cheating with it, you know what
I mean?
Like, I don't know.
I felt like I didn't want an all in one solution.
I was like, oh, I'd rather come up with this super elaborate, overly complicated process
to do it.
And now I'm looking the other way.
I'm like, that's stupid.
I don't need to dedicate all of these modules to do feedback.
So yeah, anything that's a shortcut is kind of like coming back in favor for me.
So yeah, it wasn't that I wasn't stoked on it.
I had a lot of redundancy there and I felt it was an unneeded purchase.
So I tried to flip it quickly.
I was impressed with the amount of variety that has when I got it.
I was like, oh, this is going to do like two things and I'm expecting it to do it kind
of well.
But it's, I was surprised how far you could push things in the way.
Like we were saying like the different pieces kind of duck each other at points.
And like, I was just running like a eighth note or sixteenth note, high hat into it and
turned it into very quickly into like, all right, these are some really good.
Full low gabber kicks.
Yeah.
And it was like, okay, you can really like sculpt the shit out of this.
And it's not just like a little bit of saturation that you can feed back.
It's more like you can really take some shit to crazy territories and see being everything.
It's just like fuck.
That's when it kind of hooked me.
Yeah, because even like when I first got it, like I knew running gabber kicks through it.
Was I mean, essential?
Yeah, I mean, that's that's my question.
But I even was like, like what would it happen if I just did like a simple sign?
Like what could I do with this with the simple sign oscillator and within 10 minutes?
It was mutated and all over the place.
And now this is a completely different signal.
It's become it's gone from like the most boring signal you can possibly get to something that's
going nuts and then I unplug that and then put in something from the graphic VCO and
then something from Le Kelleck.
Yeah.
Like I just started jamming all the different stuff.
I'm like, everything just took on these new life.
So it was like, it just basically doubled air.
I felt like it was doubling everything.
Like here's everything without dark matter and now here's everything with dark matter.
That's funny you say that because I took, I was doing some drama work and I was like,
cool, that's crazy.
And then I was like, oh, just taking out from the voltage lab from the Pittsburgh voltage
I haven't put it in there.
And it was like, holy fuck.
First off, the complex oscillator and the feedback stuff was like interacting really well.
And it was almost like, huh, I kind of just want one of these just to put at the end of
this all the time.
So it definitely sounds good on just like regular oscillator and synth tones, which I
was impressed with kind of.
I didn't know if it was just going to be like, oh, I'm just going to smash this kind of
thing or what, but it's pretty damn varied.
Agreed.
You guys think you're going to get the waiver?
I don't know.
It's a new one that was just announced.
Before I got the dark matter, I probably have been like, oh, that's interesting.
But blow it off is like another wave, folder, wave shaper thing.
But since it's Casper and Bastol who made the dark matter, my interest in everything they're
doing now has gotten, gone through the roof.
The only thing about the waiver, I'm like a little, there's just not a lot of good information
about it yet.
It's the only bummer.
I'm like, I really want to get excited about it.
Now that I'm fired up for that combo, I just want, I wish there was more data on it.
One thing I noticed is it didn't have any like pin headers on the back of the waiver
when I saw it because the dark matter's got a bunch of shit on the back where it's like,
oh, it seems like it's built to interact with some expanders or something.
And if they would have made a waiver that was built to hook up with that, just as like
a behind the panel, you have feedback loop.
Um, sand, that would have been kind of a no brainer almost.
Oh, this is an expansion of that with wave folding.
Sweet.
Yeah.
I just know that wave shaping feedback is good stuff.
I think the two would go together like fucking peas and carrots.
I, uh, I've remembered that I had my micro fold and immediately was like, oh shit, you're
now interesting again.
Right.
So imagine this.
Your patches that you're already very excited with that you're developing with dark matter,
like you're saying on the complex, osk, imagining getting that together and then routing the
feedback out of dark matter through waiver and then back in.
Yeah.
And now you're mutating the mutated feedback.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
I think the two would be a good pair.
It does seem odd that they didn't make it an expansion, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
But maybe they thought it just, it stands on its own two feet too, I guess.
I don't know.
I got cables.
Yeah.
I mean, like, but that would have made it all the more enticing to just have that fucking
everything just connected in the back.
But like you said too, like, um, immediately it was looking into the cast for dude.
I'm like, Oh, I haven't researched this guy.
I know about Bastol a little.
And the more I saw like his live set shit and what he does and like this, he's kind of
more like us and then he's like doing like just few pieces of hardware on a desktop all
fucked up and gabbery.
And I was like, okay, cool.
Like you're on the level.
Obviously your design is like, yeah, you want this thing because I'm sure you use the
fuck out of it.
You know, it's not just like something that you hate for vanity.
Yeah, he didn't create it just to try and sell something.
He created it because it was something he needed.
You know what I mean?
Like he wanted, like we were just saying he wanted to shortcut the process so you don't
have to dedicate half your rack to feedback processing.
You can have an all one solution and something he wanted for performing.
You know, he basically built it for himself and then he wanted to perfect it before selling
it.
Like it took him, I think a year of like perfecting the prototypes to it was at the point that
he was comfortable with selling it.
Yeah.
And like hearing him talk about saturation and feedback, I'm like, this dude fucking gets
it.
You know what I mean?
Like there's a lot of people out there I think who make saturation and stuff who don't
get it.
They're just, you know, I don't know.
There's a question I have for both you.
What distortions do you think sounds similar to that?
Because I got that module and I was like, holy shit, this is like kind of a distortion
sound I've been going for for a while, whatever it was.
Trashmaster.
Very similar to the op amp and that.
Especially with the filter because you can get like, you know, you can route the filter
and trashmaster like through that distortion unit.
So then you got like a squelchy band pass filter kind of going through it.
So it's like a narrow bandwidth type of thing that you're hitting that op amp with and then
saturating it.
So you're not blowing it out full frequency.
Right.
Fine to me.
Yeah.
Trashmaster reminded me of it a lot.
And they're stereo to your right trashmaster?
No.
So if you're not using it, you've got your filter in and out and then your saturation in
and out and they're normal so you can go in filter out saturation or in saturation out
filter or have what I like to do.
Cool.
Yeah.
Or like another reason why I sold the darkmaster using trashmaster a lot in feedback processing
too because you can have like clean filter out going into other things for feedback modulation
or routing and then you have your saturated signal going out.
You know what I mean?
I've got a lot of stuff that was kind of covering that territory.
But I also had multiple trashmasters back then.
I only have one currently so I have downsides a little bit and now I can't really just dedicate
my trashmaster to feedback if I, you know what I mean?
Yeah.
I couldn't answer that question because I don't think anything sounds like it because of
me thinking like the stracker doesn't have that, the gristle stuff doesn't have.
Even the old like spectral divisator that I had just this is a unique sound like I'm
not, I'm not going to get out of anything else.
It's a very warm, grimy sound.
Yeah.
That's the shit I try to get out of other stuff.
And I think like the in-wall heat gets kind of close to that but a little different.
A lot of the other stuff I have has like an icier tone which I love but then I think that's
another reason why I'm excited about this is not replicating anything that I have.
This is a pretty unique sound I'm getting out of it which I'm stoked on.
It's kind of like a-
It's a little bit too thumbs up.
Yeah.
I don't know what amps are in dark matter but it sounds very much like a tube screamer
type of circuit.
Agree.
Yeah.
I have more stuff.
Yeah, I have a few bad things.
I have a couple of bad things too.
I'm gonna go with the next bad thing.
I'm curious if we have some sort of the same thing.
I bet there's a little bit of overlap.
My first bad one is Dope for has a new product.
Yeah.
I have that under ugly not bad actually.
Oh I have it under bad.
Did you see him, Deeter using it?
I did.
It's like a ball thing.
It's a 10 minute fucking video of him explaining the joystick.
It's a joystick but it also twists so there's another dimension to it and then there's a
button at the top.
And you just summed it up in 10 seconds instead of 10 minutes.
Someone wants that?
Apparently Deeter thinks that they do.
It is him trying to press the button.
I think that's what like a lot of the video is him just trying to use it.
It looked completely impractical as a joystick for the button.
The twisting didn't really make sense.
It's just basically like a pot on top of a joystick and then just a much bigger like
the biggest HP joystick in the world because it looks like an old like flight simulator
joystick.
It is a substantial construction.
It looks like a giant dildo sticking out of a modular panel.
Yeah.
It's bulbous and phallic.
I wrote in my notes here at the time that I was watching it.
I'll be a monkey's uncle if it's not the ugliest thing I've ever seen sticking out of
a modular rack like some bulbous biomechanical dildo.
Arousingly phallic.
Oh my god.
Yeah it's bad looking.
Yeah.
What the fuck was he thinking?
This is ridiculous.
It's ridiculous and he tried to talk about it for 10 minutes and I fell asleep.
The fact that he was having trouble.
He's fumbling with the button.
Yes.
Because you don't even realize there's a button on the top when it starts out because he's
really excited about the twist.
He's like this is another dimension and then it's like halfway through.
He's like oh and there's a button at the top.
Every aspect of it was impractical.
This looks like the most awkward thing.
Yeah.
I find Dieter's interviews charming and amusing but this is a big hard mess.
This video could cure my insomnia and get me aroused at the same time.
It's like putting a gate on top of a D-pad.
Yeah.
Like why would you just put it next to it?
In the video he's using the button to trigger an envelope and then he's using the twist to
lengthen the envelope and he does that for 10 minutes.
I'm glad you brought it up because I almost forgot about it already.
I just wanted to block it from memory.
It'll haunt your dreams.
What else you got there?
So I also have and this is in comparison to what we were talking about earlier.
The Frappe tools Benzo.
Don't have that one on there.
So it is a massive, massive oscillator.
Like I remember seeing it was gigantic in circular in design.
Yeah, there's like a million noms, a million jacks.
My notes are and I watch two different videos on it because I was like, oh this first video
I just thought they fucked it up.
I'm like, okay they just didn't know what they were doing or they just got there.
Like whoever's doing this presentation just didn't get it.
This is much later and it's a different presentation.
My note, this is a lot of jacks and knobs for what is a thin limp oscillator sound.
Like I could not believe that much machination went into making this sound.
Honestly it seems like a joke.
And they were Ernst Weilbacht and there's a lot of explanation.
There's a lot of words to describe what went into it and none of it seems reflected in
the sound.
Because it's not like the Rossoma simulator which is another big giant.
And like he's got like his presentation from, I forget what it was like maybe super booth.
Like he's got PowerPoint presentations, all this like explanation for what it does and
it produces a really interesting sound.
It's not something I'm fired up for and not going to get.
But there was a mapping of like you had an idea and it's a crazy idea, a lot of math,
a lot of engineering and then you created something that has all this.
This Benzo was like math and ideas and a lot of talking and just this weak ejaculation
at the end of it.
I was, yeah, I was.
I kind of feel that way about all the frappetool stuff.
It's like all panel.
Yeah, then I'm like, but it looks like a healthy use.
Yeah.
I'm not a big fan of circular designs anyways.
I think the only thing that I ever jived with was the future retro revolution.
Yeah.
It was okay for being a circle.
Even that bothered me then.
I was like, I don't feel like I'm working a clock.
You know what I mean?
He's going fucking round and round.
Like there's so many more interesting symmetrical designs you could do for a panel layout than
a fucking circle.
It's like the most basic shape.
Yeah.
I feel like I never had one, but I always felt like, man, my cats would be really into
that.
Like they would just like chase it and go, there we go.
It's going around.
It's going back.
I did have, I'm sorry, I actually had one more thing.
Sorry.
I'm hoping it's the one that's at the top of my bad list.
Well, this is the last one I have.
So we'll see if that's the case.
The Pittsburgh modular Forex delay line module.
Nope.
I did not look at that.
Actually.
So it's a cool idea.
So the idea is that it is a karaoke delay chip and it's an array of them.
And the idea was, as they were designed, they realized the other BBD chips with each one
that was adding noise.
And so by the time they had four of them in a row or even within like a matrix, the noise
was just through the roof.
So they figured out that these karaoke delay line delay chips had, did not have this noise
problem.
And so they came up with this big, big giant array.
And there's different ways that you can, they interrelate.
You can have them in serial.
You can have these sort of like feedback things and there's a little patch thing at the end
for breaking some of these normalizations.
External signal, blah, blah.
Sounds cool.
It was not.
No, no, it was really like.
It's big too.
And it's actually never used the delay that's on the voltage lab.
Like ever.
Is it the same one?
Or like so?
Yeah.
I was super impressed.
How much HP we talking?
It's fucking big.
Like have a row maybe.
Or 40 HP.
Yeah, it's very large.
Yeah, first I saw it was like, oh, it's kind of like trying to be a much, much more basic
rainmaker.
Yeah, but not quite.
You saw they went all, they're going, they're on the black panel wave now too.
Oh really?
They're old standalone module voice thing and it's like a black panel and it looks better.
But you know.
Now I'm officially also going to do another one.
I had a couple.
Oh, okay.
First and foremost.
I can't even say this one without laughing.
Okay.
Watching the videos of it and seeing the pictures of it.
I just kept cracking up every time because I'm just like, who asked for this?
It is the Leek Home DM 48 digital midi harmonica.
What?
Oh, I slept on this.
Yeah, I didn't see this one at all either.
So go and don't let the other one.
Have you ever wanted to assign notes to slices of a breakbeat and chop up an amen break, Dave,
with the power of your voice?
Well.
Now you can.
I didn't know that I wanted to, but now that I know that it's possible, I want nothing
else.
Yep.
You can practice your harmonica playing in silence now, Dave.
Because why would I want that?
I don't know.
It's a midi controller that you.
It's an ugly ass black box.
Does it look like an amenica?
Like does it have the flow of the mouth?
Not really.
No, it looks like a UFO.
But you can assign each note individually.
So if you're not running a harmonica emulation, you could also control other plugins with
this, control note data with your mouth, which isn't new exactly, but now you can do
it in the format of a harmonica.
They should actually, they should ban that company from being able to use plastic.
They should be like, you know, you're just wasting resources.
They lost their plastic.
We did license.
If you wanted to practice harmonica and not annoy everyone around you, now you can just
annoy yourself in silence.
I'm still like really stuck on the image of someone ripping like an amenic break through
one of this.
That's what full fucking like rocket jungle style was.
I wished a video demonstrated something like that.
Like that is just what my own brain developed.
Yeah.
I'm just thinking of a cool use for this fucking thing.
And I was like, well, you can probably chop a break with it.
And I was like, why am I thinking that?
But yeah, so that was at the top of my list of just bad.
And then there was another one that I was also just seemed like a fucking joke.
The Casio Tone CTS 200 S 300 and S 250.
I can't even describe you how bad this thing is.
It's so ugly, so huge.
Like just Google it and see for yourself.
Because I had like a Casio Tone CTS something and it's super tiny, dude.
This ain't tiny.
And the video spends more time talking about the giant handle that is built into it as
a selling point than anything else.
The dude, the sales guy, first he hangs it on the wall and goes, look, you can hang
it anywhere.
And I'm like, why would you be hanging your synth up?
I don't know.
Okay.
And then he's playing it and he goes, now you don't have to play horizontal anymore.
You could play vertical and he takes the giant handle and he lifts it above his head and
he goes like this.
And I'm like, that's what a key target is for.
And that's a little more ergonomic than this giant handle in the middle of it.
But yeah, I don't know.
Every video of this thing was a joke and I had to watch it.
Yeah, it's really as hell.
It's gigantic.
It looks like a toy.
It looks like it's, that's for the base model.
You can get other ones with a little more features like features such as a pitch bend
wheel.
Great.
That's a good feature.
Not all models have it.
You have to get, I think, the 250 to upgrade to the pitch bend wheel.
But they all feature dance music mode.
Oh, yes.
The sales guy said, this lets you easily create and remix E-D-M tracks, Dave.
The power of rave brought to you by Cassiote.
What does the E stand for?
Is that electronic?
What's the D stand for?
I don't know.
I'm not from like...
The central dick moves.
They're pushing the envelope here, Dave.
In quotes, this was the sales pitch in every video.
You can make music anytime, anywhere.
So if this was late 80s, early 90s, this would be advertised by a dude on a skateboard holding
this by the handle going to the beach.
There's a little beach party going on, a little bonfire, and there's no music.
And then he shows up and he's carrying this on his skateboard, maybe turns it into a bike.
Maybe a surfboard at this point.
It has built-in speakers too.
Totally got that late 80s boombox vibe, but it's the year 2020.
I love this oxymoron too.
Go anywhere portability with 61 full-size keys.
That's not fucking portable.
Super portable.
61 full-size keys.
Nick.
Did you not see the handle, Nick?
Look at this picture from perspective.
They're taking up the entire side of tables.
Oh yeah, with the handle.
You can just pick it up.
Yeah.
I mean, how more portable can you get?
It has a fucking handle.
It's a handle.
Is this him?
Is that your boy?
No, but that's the dude that was standing in the background of some of the videos and
showing you how easy it is to hold.
You know, like the dudes who stand in front of banks and like spin the fucking signs?
He's doing that with one of these things back there and like making goofy faces and
shit showing how portable it is.
While the sales guy with the douchey haircut and the fucking microphone center talking about
how you're not limited to just horizontal playing anymore and blah blah blah.
If you're pulling like synth rep straws, that is the very shortest fucking straw you can
get.
So I don't know what's going on in this video and I'm not playing it, but this woman is.
This young woman is astonished.
This young woman is getting paid by a CIO.
She's astonished at the capabilities.
I can't believe it's $120 and I still fucking hate it this much.
And I also feel like this is somewhat predatory because it's going to be that thing where like
someone's aunt or uncle goes into the guitar center like Jimmy said he wanted a mug.
Exactly.
Oh well, you know.
Is this a mug?
Oh, this is better than a mug lady.
You can take this anywhere.
You can make music anytime anywhere.
He can pick it up really.
He better than a mug.
You can't use that mug without an amp.
Does he has an amp?
I don't know.
Let me ask.
Well, don't worry.
This has speakers built in.
He said he was a moke one.
He can make music anywhere anytime.
He's going to like this one.
Oh, the keys light up.
That's, that's, we all get him this harmonica too.
Yeah, let's do a quiz.
Fuck it.
I mean.
All right.
So this is now the quiz portion.
So okay.
The rules of this are going to be I'm going to provide you a comment that was provided
in a YouTube video for something one of these, one of these presentations from the four
mentioned convention.
And you're going to tell me what it's from.
Okay.
Now previously I'd given you a list, but I like the list for got to do that.
So this is, I'm going to rephrase this not as me being lazy and irresponsible.
I'm going to say this is just a more higher challenge.
So do we accept the terms of this?
Yeah, I don't have a choice.
You really don't know.
That's what's happening.
I can try going to send it to the shit Dave.
Cross the threshold and yeah, what kind of Dave's hell.
Okay.
All right.
So here's the first one.
Are you guys ready?
I'm ready.
Yeah.
No, no, you don't look ready.
I'm talking at the bit.
All right.
Still dream of Casio, Tom.
Only a German would design such a thing.
I know this right off the bat.
I think.
Peter Daufer's dick stick is 100% Dieter Daufer's.
This is for the Daufer a 174, four, three dimensional joystick.
Beautiful bulbous biomechanical joystick.
Are you guys ready for the next one?
Yes, sir.
I'm glad they added a power button.
Mm.
Since this is incredibly unfair.
If you guys want clues.
I mean, one clue.
I think a lot of things have power buttons.
Do you want me to get a clue?
This is an update of a previous product.
I think I know what it is.
Fuck.
Give me a minute though.
I'm clueless.
We can take the lead on this one.
Deluge?
No, but that's a good guess.
The deluge does have a power button.
Does it?
Okay.
It just can be powered either through DC power or USB.
Gotcha.
I want one clue.
Tell me the country of origin of the manufacturer.
I need to look this up because I want to make sure that I get it 100% correct.
It's got to be something that sucks because clearly people want to turn it off.
[laughter]
Are you ready?
Yeah.
The company that makes this is French.
French.
I will give you one more clue.
The name of this product is something, something pro.
Oh, uh, keystep pro.
Exactly.
Ding, ding, ding.
We will insert the ding, ding, ding.
Arturias French.
Yeah, they are frilly.
Yes.
I never knew that.
Okay.
That's why I had to look it up to make sure that that was correct.
Gotcha.
I always think UK for some reason, but I think they're French.
Okay.
On to the next one.
Are you guys ready?
Yeah, I'm ready.
Perfect for space movies.
Christopher Nolan and James Cameroon.
I should buy them.
I'm not.
It is James Cameroon in the comment.
Corgue state.
That is exactly it.
Ding, ding, ding.
Well played.
Are you guys ready for the next to last?
The penultimate.
This is just another money making scam to force people to use different connections.
MIDI 2.0?
This is a video about MIDI 2.0 in which someone was exposing their conspiracy theory that
someone is making money.
Didn't someone do that last year too when it was first announced?
People were saying this is all like a conspiracy theory.
There's a label that got some serious beef with MIDI.
Is it a different connection?
I don't know because I didn't actually watch the video this time, but I imagine it would
have to be.
I mean the architecture is so fucking old at this point.
Five pins.
I mean copper cartels.
You think that go with USB at this point, which every finger he has anyway.
Where's the conspiracy?
So much audio shit is going to ethernet now.
Which ethernet is on that NPC one.
I still don't understand why.
It was on the force to.
And it wasn't really clear why.
To vague about how you can use it to connect your other shit.
Because all that audio shit now is on ethernet, that Dante spec.
You can apparently add super low latency and fucking super nice too.
I know I could share files to it too.
Over it.
Yeah.
Was it like addressable?
Like a network drive?
Yeah.
Alright, are you guys ready?
Yes sir.
For the last question.
This was my favorite one.
I'll wait for the Bolin Jupiter B.
Bolin Jupiter B.
Yes.
What's that for?
Oh shit.
Oh I bet.
Is it the Udo Super 6?
It is.
Oh wait, great do you have a guess?
No, I was thinking the same thing and I couldn't remember the name of it.
The thing that looked like a Jupiter.
Yeah, it is.
It's the Roland Jupiter X.
What the fuck is that?
That's the...
We played with the XM one.
It's like 15-year-old keyboard that...
Oh shit.
Yeah, I forgot all about that thing.
Oh, it could be.
Yeah.
I read that and I lost it.
Holy shit.
I like it.
I wasn't keeping track.
Did someone win?
I think we tied.
Do we have a tiebreaker?
Oh shit.
I may have a tiebreaker.
Oh wait, I have another question.
Sudden death round?
Sudden death round.
Okay.
I'll have another one.
Shoot.
You guys ready?
Oh yeah.
Please make one with the old school color.
I'm going to say the Korg ARP 2600.
Someone probably wants the blue panel.
That was a good guess but that is incorrect.
Damn.
Blue mani.
Yeah.
Ugh.
I will give you a clue.
We did talk about this product.
RD3?
No, this was not a good tiebreaker then.
This was a comment from the Akai MPC1.
Oh.
Damn.
Alright, I do have one more then.
And this one is, this one's, this is scraping the bottom of the barrel now.
But we really cannot end on a tie.
Alright, you guys ready?
Oh yeah.
Slough.
Slop.
Dave.
Slough.
Slop.
Dave.
Well, fuck.
Did we talk about this product?
Did we not talk about this shit?
We did not talk about this company tonight either.
Pro 3.
Nick is the winner of our quiz.
Damn.
Congratulations.
Yes, this was the video for the DSI Pro 3.
That wouldn't, yeah.
Wow.
Congratulations.
I have no prize for you.
Yeah, Dave Smith.
Okay.
I see.
Yeah.
That's the only thing I could latch onto there.
Nicely done, Dave, without the Dave.
I was grasping the fucking straws there.
I was like, oh no.
Yeah.
I'm just a little bit of a slop.
Holy shit!